I think we're going to put in a little
bit of time today on the uh the
vectorzation back end.
We're still going to do more stuff on
tiny either tomorrow or early next week.
Uh I think though I want to do a little
bit on vectorization at the moment. I
got a couple meetings that might get
slotted in later today as well.
We shall see.
But for now, this is what we're going to
work on.
Hey, Harris.
It was good.
I uh I got some rest in.
It's one of those things where getting a
little rest only kind of told me like,
yeah, I'm actually a lot more tired than
that and I probably just need like need
to take a mini vacation at some point
soon. Um, but I figure I can wait until
uh, you know, after nurips and all the
conference stuff comes out and plus
there are a couple things I need to get
done in the next uh, week anyways.
Okay. So,
right. I remember we have this
implemented but it hangs right.
Let's see how I if I did this in a way
that makes any sense at all. So
I currently have this
buff percent num buffers.
Lock size is going to be the number of m
divided by the number of buffers.
going to do a little bit of work on
vectorization.
I'm pleased to report I did not
completely stuff myself yesterday cuz uh
I got well I got up super late. I slept
a bunch and well super late being 8:30
but still and I didn't have as much time
as I would have liked before breakfast.
So instead of doing a 10k or even a 5k,
I just did a onem uh a onem test. So
it's like one mile warm-up and like a
one mile max max max effort. And I don't
actually know exactly how long the uh
the road is here. It's at least a mile.
So I did something like a 630, maybe a
little better.
I was quite happy with that.
Yeah, double buffering stuff, Yes.
this into blocks, right?
Buff times block size
It's all fine, right?
The reason I'm working on this as well
is no matter what happens with tiny
grad, we will need this anyways.
Like it doesn't matter if it's a torch
tensor back end or something else.
Is this any model execution performed
locally?
No, I have a box right here. I do a lot
of my dev just on the same machine I'm
streaming from. I pretty much have like
the same type of machine as we have back
there. you see all like the single GPU
boxes and then uh there's no point in
using a sixGPU box for dev. I mostly use
those for bigger experiments. Like a
6GPU experiment is actually quite large
for um the standards of what I'm working
on here because like here look this is
running on a 6GPU box. Actually, this is
kind of funny, the fact that this ended
up sloping up because this is a
completely stupid neural net
architecture that's doing very well on
neural MMO 3. Uh, but the reason I
pulled this thing up is this is the six
GPU box run and this x-axis is in
hundreds of billions of steps. You know,
there's over 1.5 trillion steps worth of
data here.
something like
uncompressed data would probably be
like like 12 or 13 um 12 or 13 pabytes.
A lot of data.
How do you recommend getting into puffer
lib? All right. Yeah, since we have some
new people here from the the content
yesterday. Let me
So the usual advice because this is the
most common question I get asked. So, I
actually put a good amount of effort
into just putting all of my best advice
and all my best guidance in one place.
If you're new slash, don't know how to
write good code slash want to know like
how to think about science, this one. If
you want specific RL advice, this one.
Um, these are interactive in the sense
that they will tell you do this, do
this, do this. It's not going to just be
like read this and you're good. but it's
a lot more condensed and uh a lot more
like fast-paced than pretty much
anything else out there. You know, you
can work through this pretty quick.
I don't think there's anything that
could block and screw up here. I think
it's just got to be the VE,
right?
Sure thing. Happy Black Friday. How many
hours of streaming today? Uh, that is
actually to be determined because I have
two people, well, two clients, two like
potential clients who wanted uh meetings
and
uh but you know, with Thanksgiving and
stuff, there was like some scheduling
whatever. So, I have my email up on the
other window to see if anybody books
last minute. If not, uh if nobody books
last minute, then I'm probably just
going to stream like five probably five
hours today
and see if I can get a good chunk of
this done.
Well, I guess now we uh now we start
figuring out where it's blocking, right?
Is the obvious thing.
Take my watch off. Watch always gets
away with my keyboard.
Easily do five to six hours. Five to
seven. Yeah, but that's not really that
much work if you think about it, right?
like a good workday. If I were working
hard, I'd be cranking like 12, 14 hour
days. This is kind of towards the end of
a block of work where I've kind of like
done as much as I can and tired myself
out. And um I'm kind of just like
putting in, you know, more manageable
four to six hour blocks here and there,
trying to like there like a few concrete
things I want to just have be fully done
before I take a like a longer break. The
vectorization is definitely one of them.
Um the evaluation of tiny is another and
I say it that way because like I want to
basically have no uncertainty about the
remaining work in puffer core. And uh as
it stands, it's either has to be like
get some cool kernels out of tiny
somehow slashdo something with that or
it's going to be like do cudigraphs plus
finish custom kernels plus like some
other stuff
I think. Yeah. So I want to have all the
uncertainty out of this uh before I
finish this block of work and take some
time off.
How much GPU do you recommend locally on
a dev workstation?
How much GPU do you recommend locally? I
just have a a 4090. Is that 4090 on this
box? Yeah, 4090 on this box. If I were
to get this now, I'd put a 5090 in it.
9950X.
I mean, the one vice I have is when I'm
tired, I end up playing games. So, it's
like, yay, dual purpose.
The only saving grace I have is um I
don't have a window. I don't have
Windows on this machine at all. But at
least most of the really addicting stuff
I can't even download.
I will I'll I'll pull this up actually
just um this is what I've been doing
lately. This is awesome. And uh it's
kind of on topic as well because you
know I do all this work on neural MMO
that is one dev has just like apparently
while I was cranking neural MMO one dev
was cranking a single player MMO with
scripted AIs that follow you around. Um
and it's really freaking cool. And
there's kind of some stuff in there that
makes me think about you know Neural MMO
3 is going to be solved at some point.
What do I do for Neural MMO 4?
I don't understand the whole like dev on
Mac thing. It's just bad.
I know. Debbing on a laptop in general
just feels freaking bad to me.
I really like my uh the setup I've got
here.
Honestly, the biggest thing because for
a while I would like not want to be at
my desktop and um would want to like go
deb on the couch with my laptop until I
got myself a proper chair.
If you're in an office chair, you'll
basically just never want to be in it.
Um, with something like this, this is
just like pretty much every bit as
comfortable as just being on a sofa all
day.
Okay, so what the heck happened here?
I got to figure out where this thing is
hanging. So, this thing obs action. So,
it actually did a couple cycles of this.
Oh, maybe there is a race condition.
Hang on. I got to go through the way
that I did all this logic again.
So this is for uh for folks who have not
seen me work on this before. Uh the
purpose of this thing, this is a C
vectorization backend for our custom RL
environments. So the idea is you run a
bunch of threads. Maybe each uh each
thread is going to like handle
processing of environments kind of just
as they're available. Um, but it's all
done in like shared memory with no
redundant copies. And the really key
thing that I'm doing now, so I have a
version of this in Python that's very
very low overhead uh for Python. This
will be a little bit faster. But then
the key key thing about this is that I'm
going to buffer the CUDA transfers. So
the idea is by the time that you need a
new set of observations, not only is it
already going to be computed, but it's
already going to be moved onto the GPU
for you. And that's the thing that makes
it substantially more complicated to do
this correctly. Um, but this is going to
eliminate like one of the biggest
sources of overhead in RL in general,
I'd say. And it's one of the key things
that like makes people try to put
environments on GPU even when it's like
obviously wrong.
So yeah, what chair do I have? I mean,
this is just like a a recliner, man.
This is like a full recliner. It's not
an office chair.
And if you think that's bad for your
back, then you got to deadlift more.
Like comfy chair plus stay in shape. Way
way way better than like ergonomic
whatever the hell plus not do anything.
All right. So, the logic for this thing,
this is the worker thread.
Yeah. It's funny. Actually, one of these
is cheaper than a good office chair as
well. Isn't that nuts?
we've got this threaded step.
So, this thing is going to wait for
work.
Let me How many of these did we get?
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
One, two, three, four, five.
I really like that I don't have to
rebuild this. So, this entire thing is
just a DLL. So, I just that script you
see that builds. It runs instantly
because it's just building a tiny little
CDL. And then the heavy thing doesn't
actually need to be rebuilt.
Okay. So, look at this. We have
we have all this stepping
They all print out of order, which is
fine.
this is all the way.
Yeah, it looks like this actually gets
through a few cycles.
have index
No, I don't actually know which one this
is.
Is there a better way of debugging where
exactly this is blocking?
I don't think so. I think I just sort of
need to look at the way that this works
and figure out the possible deadlock
spots.
Okay. So, you're going to call
you call receive
right?
You're going to call vec receive
and then you call vec uh send, right?
Yeah. So you would call vec receive vec
send.
So what's the receive going to do?
Receive is going to do
could check reset. I think I did reset
kind of hacky. Yeah. So reset just does
Oh, okay. That actually got us something
quite different. Actions ready.
I was ready.
We got actions ready twice,
which is jank.
receive
the multi-threaded
use the red sanitizer.
Uh if that exists then yes.
This is not something I've had to do
before. That might be surprising, but
like I wrote Python for 10 years and
threads in Python are worthless. So I
did a ton of multipprocessing
and basically no threading. Uh
is that just in is that just in like
every compiler or is this something
separate? Oh, it's in clang.
How does this work with the DLL?
If I compile the DLL with this and then
I import it from something else.
I didn't realize this was built in. I
used the uh the address sanitizer. I
didn't realize it also had bread
sanitizer. That's cool.
Uh
yeah.
Okay. So, that's going to break because
well, we can just use this as an excuse
to write a test for this thing, right?
Yeah, it's kind of funny, Vlad. I'm like
I'm actually I'm not trained as a
systems dev.
Like despite all the low-level stuff I
do around here and how like RL's getting
super fast, like I'm a researcher. I
wrote Python for 10 years and I just
kind of like went more and more and more
towards the end side over time. Been
learning a lot of stuff lately. Um, but
there are definitely gaps.
To be fair, the uh the thing that put me
off of systems in the first place was
all my systems courses in undergrad,
they didn't tell us that any form of
sanitizer existed at all. Um,
yeah, it was a mess.
Yeah. So I think that all we need to do
here
right. So now we're going to
receive
buff
four.
Okay.
Action
three.
Okay. So, we just essentially force this
thing to be I think we do have access to
this. So, I think we can just force this
to be random actions.
What are you working on today? We're
working on the vectorzation for a bit.
Uh, this is test binding. Should it not
be test DLL?
Oh,
okay.
environment reset
step.
Do I need to test this through
the DLL for some reason?
There any reason I need to do it that
way?
kind of isn't right.
Okay,
that's better. There's no reason we need
to do this through the bloody DL every
time, right?
See? Okay. So, we can't find the cuda
stuff.
Oh,
does this have to be shared then?
H the way I have this, it has to be
shared.
Yeah, that's why I had it this way.
Okay.
Hey, convert. Welcome. Oh, yeah. I need
to buy a couple things.
Couple small things.
Tiny doesn't have uh $20,000 off of
servers or anything today.
I say
any new pieces.
they have them on customs or they just
have them on pre-builts.
N they just have them on laptops and
pre-builts.
It's actually kind of funny. I probably
will get one of their laptops next time
just because of how bad Razer is just
screwed up on my current one, but I
don't really use a laptop at all. So,
it's my current one.
Any good pre-builts?
They usually skimp on at least
something.
I usually just go grab their custom ones
and put what I need.
Yeah, I'm not I'm not building my own
stuff, man. I built enough PCs in my
time. It's like it's no longer worth my
time to build it myself.
Yeah. So, this is the thing you can't
do, right?
I'd hope with the new stuff you're doing
there's uh
I'm thinking about grabbing a uh an
8x5090,
but I really don't want to do it until I
see the benchmark on Puffer 4 and like
confirm that it's actually going to be
useful, right? It was a $50,000 server.
I don't want to get it if it's not going
to be like genuinely awesome.
And I also I wouldn't mind getting like
a bunch more of the single GPU boxes as
well if I can get them at a decent
price.
Um
so we can have just more contributors
doing stuff
put some of the uh you know the revenue
back into buffer machines probably early
next year.
I don't know how to do this without
torch. Hang on one sec.
And we'll get thread sanitizer and we'll
have a standalone test and things will
be good.
I do not want to launch freaking
Colonel. That's obnoxious.
Yeah, because I don't want to have to do
H. That's annoying.
Like I just need something that's going
to cause
cause the colonel to have to sink,
right?
Uh,
this is going to require me to include
Yeah, this is going to require me to
include the Cuda runtime, though.
I just need to compile both of them with
it.
check. Failed.
Okay. What is this?
We'll have to do it without it.
I do not want to have to remake the
container.
Actually, that thread sanitizer would be
so nice to have.
Oh, no. This is This is way better.
Yeah, I actually I need this.
This will just save a ton of time.
That seems really stupid, but we'll try
it.
and sometimes I hate that we have to use
Docker for everything
like the least of the evils though.
So though technically
H
I suppose I could commit this stuff and
just try this not in a docker
would work, right?
I already have it set up on tiny boxes.
Let's just do that because otherwise
this is just so dumb. You're a Docker,
man.
Then I won't just be sitting here doing
fighting Docker. I won't actually be
able to fight the bug.
Yeah, this one is free.
Uh, I will watch the Ilia interview on
stream at some point, Jess, when I get a
chance.
Oh, we have a bunch of uh people on
YouTube at the moment. Welcome
everybody. If you're new around here, I
stream all my dev. It's all open source.
We are currently working on a high
performance uh vectorzation backend for
the next version of Puffer, Puffer 4.
Uh, this is going to do a bunch of stuff
that's going to make pretty much all of
the GPU CPU transfer overhead go away
magically.
Uh, but I'm it's there's a bunch of
threading and I'm tracking down some
data races.
If you're interested in my stuff though,
it's all here. Puffer, you can help me
out for free by starring the repo. And
if you want to get involved with all
this stuff, um, Discord's right here.
Most of these environments are built by
contributors and a lot of these end up
being really useful in research as well.
Back to dev.
Okay, so
now we're on tiny boxes.
And uh the reason I'm doing this is
because the tiny boxes don't work on uh
they're not using dockers.
This should just be a quick way for me
to get the address sanitizer to run or
the thread sanitizer rather to run.
Hey Tim, welcome.
Yeah. And if we can figure this out. So
pretty much I have this working with one
buffer. Um, but what I want to do is I
want to make it so that when you compute
your observations and actions, right?
Your model only goes through the
environments like in chunks and then
while you're processing this chunk over
here, you know, then this chunk over
here is still computing observations
which is already how pufferlib works.
But the difference is that now instead
of computing observations on CPU, it's
also going to move them to the GPU for
you in the background because that is
the main source of overhead right now.
um pretty much in all of the RL we're
doing. I there are a few other like
low-level sources of of um overhead that
I am fairly confident I'm going to be
able to remove in this next version.
This is the big one and this should this
combined with um CUDA kernel fusion
combined with maybe CUDA graph should
get us 10 million steps per second
training.
That's the goal.
I don't want to launch this before we
have 10 mill steps per second.
Upper lip extensions breakout C.
Apparently, I forgot to commit this
Okay. So now we have
uh we no longer have sanitizer errors.
Why?
Oh, apparently this test
does not
apparently CUDA is not getting included
in this. That's weird.
So CUDA does not get used anywhere in
here, but
this endbinding DLL
does,
but I thought that I have
Well, this is definitely
Oh. Oh, okay. Yeah, it's because
it's because the setup.py Pi file when
I'm running this from Python.
Yeah, it's this is getting included from
here.
I thought I had. There's got to be some
extra flag.
I thought I had that. Oh, I went. Did I
not have that?
L. And this goes underneath
underneath here.
Yes. Okay. This is what we wanted,
folks.
This is exactly what we wanted.
So, now we have thread sanitizer.
And this will tell us exactly what we're
doing wrong, and we won't have to guess.
That is incredibly convenient.
Interesting. So, we're actually getting
a data race and compute observations
itself somehow which should not be
possible.
Here, let's see if anybody else What was
the result for Tiny? Uh, it's good so
far for both of you guys. Uh, we're
going to do more Tiny stuff either
tomorrow if we finish this or uh early
next week. We're definitely doing more
stuff with Tiny. You know, I didn't get
enough time yesterday in to see if I'm
like fully on board or not yet, but what
I saw I liked.
I mean, so far the impression is
definitely better than Jax,
but we'll see whether it gives you the
same low-level flexibility as Torch
does.
Like torches low-level stuff is
terrible, but at least it exists, right?
All right. So,
how on earth could this possibly be
touching the same environments, right?
Because you do atomic fetch add explicit
Let me go check what the hell is going
on. There's some weird
construction or something. Give me one
minute and I got to get coffee anyways.
Oh, and uh yeah, give me let's make it
three or four minutes. I'll also get my
first bench set in for the day.
10 would have been tied PB. And that PB
was from um when I was 15 pounds heavier
than I am now. So
210 for nine ain't bad. I only weigh 170
at the moment.
I think I PR the mile this morning as
well. It might have been like an exact
tie with my old one. I'm not quite sure.
Hey, David.
All right, let's get back to the real
heavy lifting here.
[sighs]
So, I don't understand how there could
possibly be a data race on this of all
places.
My best single ever is a 265.
That's when I weighed like 187 though. I
was much heavier.
I'm not doing like heavy triples,
doubles, and singles at the moment
though.
Pepe, I've been saying that I will watch
the Ilia Indor podcast on stream at some
point. I haven't gotten around to it
yet.
That's disgusting.
Uh I feel like Fred from uh you know
Scooby-Doo I bench 210.
It's like all right. It's okay. You'll
get there one day.
Hello. Welcome.
I'm definitely still out of breath from
the uh the one mile this morning. I got
to like
So, I have I did something kind of
stupid. This is a $100 phone.
Um, I got this thing as a temporary
thing because I ordered a minimal phone.
Figured I'd try it and see if I like it.
Um, but I have not actually bothered
figuring out how to get Strava and
everything set up. So, I have not
synchronized this to my watch data from
running for the last like two months.
So, I actually don't know how good any
of the PRs I have set are until I go and
do that,
but I know I've gotten like several of
them.
He doesn't say much. I will be the judge
of that, Tim.
Is there anything that would make this
I guess technically screwing up the work
index could make this um
Wait, how on earth can this possibly be
data race?
You'll get mad at Dwar.
Of course I will. From what I've seen, I
don't exactly have a high opinion of
him. That's why I tweeted like Ilia is
literally the only guest that could he
could get that would make me watch his
podcast.
Is it possible? Hang on. What does this
say precisely?
Create environments.
Oh, wait. It's in create environments.
It's wrong.
Wait, no. Created by main thread.
Write of size one at this address.
Right. Of size one.
Is it telling me that can get all the
way around?
Huh?
Does that make any sense?
Is this a real bug or is this the thread
sanitizer being like wrong?
Like I don't I haven't used this before
so I don't actually know
because the thing is I'm synchronizing
the thread should be getting
synchronized through CUDA.
And let me go look at this manually a
little bit
because this is just counting upwards
forever.
Oh, this is actually this is going to
skip environments. This is bad.
Yeah, this is going to 100% skip
environments. I didn't realize that.
Yeah. Okay.
Is it?
You can't actually have this like index
less than end check.
Okay, so we have to redesign this a
little bit.
This is definitely a race. Do you see
why? So because like this less than
check this is just like ignores the last
few increments before this syncs but
then the index is going to be wrong.
But this counting up forever
architecture is like kind of nice.
So let me let me see if I can kind of
just talk through this. So
what's going to happen is you get all
your environments reset, right?
And then you get observations submitted.
Each time you submit a batch of
observations, you increment this end
counter,
right?
I could assign them explicit chunks of
work. That makes it easier to
synchronize, but I think you can lose PF
doing that.
But isn't this like a very common
architecture?
This is just producer consumer, isn't
it?
Oh, because you want this to be super
low overhead, right? So I'm trying to
manage this just with like one atomic
index.
And the problem is
Well, the end index is basically
Yeah, that one doesn't have to get
checked very often. Then
you do just have this work index.
Yeah, this is a this is definitely a
race condition right here.
If you were to fetch these both at the
same time.
No, cuz see you need the entire block to
be atomic.
you'd have to lock the whole block.
You'd basically have to do a more
complicated locking mechanism for this
rather than relying on atomics.
Yeah. So, these atomic ops just give you
like um a very minimal set of things you
can do without more complex locking.
I'm not done testing tiny grad swag. I'm
going to be doing that more.
I'm working on our new vectorzation
stuff. This is gonna be pretty awesome,
but it's gonna take some work.
is trail.
Very true.
I still have not read this. I've meant
to.
Oh, yeah. This actually does get me
excited about the interview because this
is spot on. This is basically what I've
said the whole time. And actually, this
is kind of what I told Ilia like
seven, eight years ago now when he asked
me like what I thought about language
models. It's like, yeah, I think they're
going to work really well, but they're
not going to solve everything.
And you're going to need well in my case
I thought it was you're going to need
like you're going to need learning from
sim you need RL interaction.
Okay. So I can just bite the bullet here
and
do some more complex locking. But this
loop you want to be very tight is the
problem.
You actually don't want to do any more
complex locking in here if you can avoid
it.
if I fetch the current index and the
current end
I wait. I think that this does work.
Hear me out. So,
if you make sure I think I just have to
change how I broadcast a little bit.
So when actions are ready on CPU,
I add block size to the end
and
the problem only happens I think when
this has already gone past
the current end point, right? Because
then you're going to miss some
environments.
And then you say, hey, your actions are
not ready. Cool.
And then you're just going to check when
the work index is
greater than this start.
Yeah. Yeah. So this can definitely screw
you over.
>> [clears throat]
>> Concurrency is very difficult for me to
think about for whatever reason.
So what I want to do is I just want to
avoid
I want to avoid incrementing index at
all costs
above the end. Right?
end is never going to get like smaller
on you. The the problem is
and we don't actually care if um end
gets incremented. The problem is just
index, right?
We don't ever want index to go
above the end.
Hang on.
Isn't that like that's so obvious? Why
the hell didn't I think of that?
Is there some reason this doesn't work?
oh, this is a different one now, isn't
it?
Cool.
Okay, so let me think about this now.
[clears throat]
Can this ever result in you processing
this index twice?
It can't, right? Because you only ever
So what happens if this gets triggered a
whole bunch of times, right? Let's say
you add up, you go way above the index.
This never happens then and they all get
subbed out. And if end goes above on
like one of the threads, then you'll
process out of order.
Uh, you can end up processing out of
order
slightly.
You can end up processing slightly out
of order, I believe.
Is that a problem?
Don't think so.
I don't see why it would be.
I think this is fine.
And this is very very low overhead. This
op.
Okay,
let me compile this without uh let me
see this this previous write
ve send.
You don't track. I don't think the I
don't think it matters here
[cough] because it's [clears throat]
only
Oh, actually there is there is still a
race condition here. [ __ ] there is.
So
your last threads can still be
processing Cstep and this work index
will be too high.
Does that help? If I just add a
completed index,
that does it, doesn't it?
Let me see what's going on under my uh
thing here. One sec, guys.
right. I thought about how we're going
to do this.
Nah, they're just doing a uh a little
bit of maintenance invert. And
apparently they left a pair of pliers up
there.
All we need to do I think is add one
more
one more atomic which is going to be
completed index.
And I think all I have to do is this
um [sighs and gasps]
atomic
add explicit
did
like this, right?
And then
instead of checking the work index.
Yeah. See this is I even knew it right
here.
How many nerps have you attended? How's
the vibe change there throughout the
years?
I don't know off the top of my head.
Somewhere between
four and seven, I think. First year was
2017, which was back when it was still
called NIPS. Other
way of not having to worry about it is
to use code Joseph appropri
[laughter]
low-level crap and then you all just get
to do chill low-level gamedev and uh
that actually somehow turns turns into
real awesome research progress, which is
pretty awesome that it works that way.
Pretty cool.
Why doesn't autotune work? The reason
that autotune doesn't work just is
because our M's got so fast that like I
haven't bothered with that thing in a
long time because you no longer need to
run autotune on anything native because
everything is just fast.
ideas for a strongly tree
treel like structured env.
Um
there a lot of things you can come up
with that.
It's difficult to come up with
meaningful ones cuz like technically
everything is an exploration tree.
I'm kind of fresh out of um fresh out of
intelligent thoughts, honestly. I'm kind
of just coasting on the last bit of this
dev before the holidays.
I just have like a few more things that
I want solid on Puffer 4 and uh a few
more things to get done for clients.
So far, Kungi, yes. Um, I did not finish
it yesterday. Okay. I thought I was
going to have all day and then uh my
family informed me in the morning that
Thanksgiving celebrations were to be
held at 2:00 p.m. instead of, you know,
5 6 7. So, uh I'm going to do another
stream on that. Maybe tomorrow. If I
happen to by some miracle get all the
vectorization done today, I'll do tiny
tomorrow. If not, then it'll be once
this is done on like Monday or Tuesday
or something like that.
use variable work index.
Yeah, we don't need this here anymore.
of four and step
previous right
C reset.
I'm a little sketched out by this
because
this is literally this is a synchronous
operation.
It says it was previously written by the
main thread in reset.
call ve reset here before you call um
see send.
Hang on. Maybe I Maybe it is off.
Go look.
Is everybody watching stream on Black
Friday? Welcome everybody to all the new
folks here. Um that is not including
anybody on X. 27 people. So, uh, if
you're interested in RL, whether you're
already in the space or you're
interested in getting involved, this is
all free and open source work. Uh, the
vast majority of it does not require you
to wade through low-level hell, though
you're free to dig into that if you want
to learn stuff there as well. Um,
puffer.ai. Want to help me for
absolutely free? Feed the puff for a
star. It actually helps me way more than
you'd expect and lets me spend more of
my time on this rather than like
client stuff, business, whatever. Now,
there's technically a company here as
well, even though I spend all my time on
research. Uh,
Discord's where all the dev happens, and
I also post educational stuff on X. And
if you're looking to get into RL, the
articles on my tab here are where you
get started as all my best advice.
Okay, so we've fixed a couple of these
issues. Now, when does this thing get
started? It gets started as soon as
I mean it gets locked right here,
doesn't it? So, wake con.
When do I wake the threads up? The
thread manager wakes these threads up.
Right.
does this not get broadcasted at all? It
only gets broadcasted in the Cthread
manager.
Oh, okay. I'm dumb.
Yeah,
wait. No, because then this this only
broadcast when actions ready on GPU is
true.
Right.
Threading actions ready on GPU.
Where do we set this
on? Vec reset, right?
actions ready
only gets called when you call vex send
no
okay so let's just let's actually just
see when everything is happening here
right
I think I have some idea now.
So, let's do a quick um
F worker
on fake.
I don't have my autocomplete here, so
give me if I mess things up.
Uh
Okay, so worker wakes up here.
So then we're going to figure out
actions ready, ops ready. Okay, perfect.
So, we already have these in place.
And then we're going to call
the bottom. We're going to say
finished
creating
Anything res resonated?
Everybody keeps asking me that. I've
said I'm going to watch that podcast on
stream. I have not watched it yet. Um,
probably not going to be today because
I'm actually getting good stuff done on
this.
But we are going to watch that on
stream. So, and then I'll probably post
the VOD of that on YouTube. I think I'm
allowed to do that right.
I'm super fast data transfer. Yeah.
[clears throat] So, this should actually
fix that, Jess completely
now. Obviously, you can't get above.
We're gonna have a bandwidth test that
tells you exactly how many gigs a second
you can have of obs, but like
we should be well well under control
with this. There are a couple sort of
weird side effects I think. Uh shouldn't
be too bad though,
especially with the other optimizations
that we have going for us.
All right. So, we want to do
Okay. So, new thread. All the workers
are waiting on waking up. Thread manager
is initialized. Finish creating MS.
Nothing can possibly be racing yet
because everything is just waiting. And
uh I think actually we're going to do
one other thing here.
Do I have any threads that are just like
there should be one thread that's
spinning? No. Thread manager
initialized.
I thought I have one thread that I just
have busy waiting.
Why don't I see um Why don't I see one
thread like spinning?
Oh, I do. Right here. 37.
Yeah, 37%.
Wait, but this is this is the display
service.
This is not even my thread.
Oh, cuz I'm in GDB. Duh. Wait, no. GDB
shouldn't stop threads, right?
GDB shouldn't stop threads.
Okay. I actually have no idea why this
thing is not um
is not taking any compute, but whatever.
We'll not question that for now.
Okay, now we call vec reset and no uh
nothing gets printed because this is a
fully synchronous function.
Now we call vec receive
on the buffers
and nothing should happen again
because the only thing that vec receive
does
synchronizes this stream
on CPU and it sets this to false.
Okay, obs ready and I don't think this
flag gets used at all. All right.
Yes. So, this only gets set by
by this here.
Cool.
I just want Mr. to update Discord. It
takes two seconds. Jess
package- I on the binary downloads. It's
a little annoying that it's not
automated, but
uh now this should print a bunch of
stuff.
Okay, so
we called Vex send
PyTorch PR get merged. Me get rid of
this bot real quick.
I have not checked it. Uh and I don't
want to break momentum here actually
because it's complicated.
Okay. So what do we get? We get workers
woke up actions ready on CPU.
Right. So this because we call vex send
vex send initiates
oops an asynchronous copy
This waits until this CUDA transfer is
done. And now
OB's already on the CPU, not just the
GPU, right?
And then all the workers are going to
wake up.
This is saying that we have a race
vex send.
Oh, did I do this bad?
I think I did it bad.
Uh, is the thread sanitizer just
expecting me to sync everything or is it
too aggressive or do I have something
wrong here?
Let me see. [clears throat]
So here Beck send marks actions ready on
GPU as true
I want to see if this is just the
sanitizer being pedantic.
I think either way it's probably
will be good to adjust this. Um,
advice for noobs starting out in RL?
Entire guide of it, my guy.
These two articles
and feed the puffer star [clears throat]
all free and all the resources that this
points you to are free.
let me just go double check. I think
I mean there's no point, not really a
point in doing this. I think I can just
do atomic
flag.
It is
comic flag
test and set
then this will not have anything
possible to complain about.
And even if this is the um thread
sanitizer being pedantic, I'd like to
pass the thread sanitizer because that's
kind of a useful tool to have.
And now I get to do well not
comic
clear.
Okay. So,
I think this is
Atomic load.
This needs an end per sound.
Uh, was it 123?
Atomic flag clear.
address must be pointer
atomic flag.
like
that.
I just made the same error a bunch of
times. No worries.
Those should all end up like those will
all get cleaned up anyways.
That's super stupid.
Why the hell is it like this?
Oh, okay. It's a low-level thing. Fine.
We just want atomic bull.
But then why is there not a C atomic?
Why is there not an atomic bool?
Oh, there is.
But wait, there's not. Oh, you dummy.
It's just atomic bull instead of atomic
flag. All right, that's easy.
Does puffer have an easy way to use
image obs? Yes, you have to create the
imageries manually in step. Well, it
depends. Like if you have a custom
environment then your custom environment
has to return image obs right if you're
using an existing third party
environment then it's already going to
return image obs
are just arrays.
So the reason that we don't use image
obs usually is because they're slow to
compute and they're big but there's
nothing preventing you from using them
right there like plenty of ms that have
them.
The only advice I can give you on that
is um ideally
if you have to use image ops like
usually you down sample them uh do the
downsampling operation like as close to
the end as you possibly can so that
you're not like manipulating giant
chunks of memory on the main thread.
Be surprised how often people mess that
up.
Oh, you're also uh you do technical
content.
This was fun.
This one's actually kind of relevant.
Yo, um, yo, Green. Um, so RL is really,
really bad at mazes. Like, and if you
think about it and you know a little bit
about the field, it's kind of obvious
why, but we do have the state-of-the-art
maze agent by like a factor of 10 uh in
puffer lib, which actually is way
smaller of a maze than what you even
have here. Like again, it's a really
really bad problem for RL, but uh that
environment is included and you can play
with it.
Somebody just PR TCG stuff as well,
which is kind of cool.
Not atomic set. What was it? Atomic
store.
Nice.
We get farther this time, I believe.
Right.
Okay. We make some M's.
Reset some M's.
Interesting.
We are not getting any
We're not getting any thread errors now.
Uh but we are hanging.
Huh.
So we fixed some stuff apparently.
That's cool.
This
look at this.
That's a cool PR.
ever so slightly faster as far as ELO is
concerned. That's good.
Yeah, the architecture thing is kind of
funny, Jess, cuz like
even with a completely terrible
architecture,
this is Neural MMO. Look at this. This
is without the convent coder. This is
with just like a flat linear layer as
the encoder even though you have
categorical data in there.
All right, let's see what this gives us
when we just run like this.
All right, so now we have some thread
sanitizer.
a right in CEP
previously in C reset.
Interesting.
Oops.
Create our M's.
Reset our M's.
Buffer.
Steve. Send.
Worker. Woke up.
Steve.
Okay. So, let's get some more debugging
in here.
F.
Save.
Waiting on
We're just going to like add some stuff
in here, right?
And
oh, and let me make sure I don't have
any important emails.
Speak is better. Perfect.
So, I don't have any emails last minute.
Very good.
Uh, and Twitter has reminded me. Third
bench press. Third bench press set time.
Take a couple minutes. I get my uh
coffee refill as well
as it is what time?
Well, 2 p.m. I should be able to get
some stuff done. I have it. And there's
no if there are no meetings, I got three
hours more to do
This one's here. We also want to do a
vex send.
Uh, literally nothing blocks in send.
So,
trained a small stupid maze solving
model with buffer. That's cool. Yeah,
was one of the things we did in our
demo, right, for um
where's the maze agent? We had a really
good maze agent.
And if you know the literature in RL at
all, like this is soda by an order of
magnitude.
tiny bit better.
I mean, we didn't have to do very much
with it. Yo, Kevin, how's it going?
you actually benching live?
Yeah. I mean, I do uh I do all my sets
in the background throughout the day.
Have you not noticed? [clears throat]
That's kind of one of the perks of
[clears throat]
working in a gym is I get to just do my
sets throughout the day. Hey, Natcha,
welcome. How is uh
how is the compute startup going?
And now does um what's the URL, man?
I'd be using it, but I haven't used any
cloud compute in a while since I have
all these servers.
What?
Ah,
are you
there? It is cloudy.
I'll let you build this.
It's pretty cool.
So you all can go check that out if
you're looking for cloud compute.
Actually
this thing has a ton of backends, right?
Does it aggregate does it include vast
in the uh the aggregations right now.
This is pretty solid if it does for
that.
No. Ah yeah. So, Vast is like the super
cheap one for um for single nodes that I
usually recommend my users use.
The stuff is just so cheap. I mean, we
have all of our our own compute now for
Puffer pretty much,
unreliable network speeds. Yeah, I
noticed that.
But the thing is
it kind of doesn't matter a lot of the
time for single node stuff.
Like
there's basically no point in going to
multiode with how fast a lot of our RL
is.
If you'd ever like to see um 1.5
trillion steps worth of data on one
plot,
here you go. X-axis and hundreds of
billions of steps
like I don't know 12 13 pabytes
uncompressed of observations.
And this just ran in uh on this is like
on one tiny box, one six GPU server.
Okay, you definitely don't need cube for
this, man. It's way too heavy. I just
have like here, if you look behind me,
you can see all of them, right? There's
single GPU boxes and then there are a
couple multiGPU boxes above them.
Actually, the the single GPU ones are
mostly available to contributors uh as
well. Um, but they all just have the
same Docker container on them. So, it's
super fast to like nuke and install. You
just have to go grab whatever the latest
Docker is. You don't have to mess with
host packages per machine. And that's
pretty much it.
And then you just SSH to the nodes and
use um tail scale for O.
Pretty simple.
I also only support containers and my
new stuff needs VMs. What do you need
VMs for?
Shared storage next week. More gigabytes
of compute.
That's cool.
Yeah, that stuff all makes sense in LLM
world.
With RL, you kind of just want I mean
it's not even like an appreciable
market. It's mostly um you know the
users are mostly like hobbyists or you
know individuals playing around with
stuff. Some companies use it as well,
but RL is not very compute intensive.
Well, at least not anymore.
goal for Puffer 4 is 10 million steps
per second on one GPU.
So you can imagine that with those
speeds, even a single GPU takes you very
far.
Uh, actually, I didn't want to run it
this way. I wanted to run it.
I offer containers on a distributed file
system and handle a bunch of syncing and
caching. Can't do Docker in Docker
without VMs, bare metal or Kubernetes.
Here's on distributed.
Oh, okay. Yeah. So, vast you have the
same
Docker in Docker on Vast, I say. Uh
I hope it's going well, man. That is um
I mean just good infrastructure is
always so useful and so
underappreciated, but
ultimately it doesn't matter if it's not
appreciated in a startup as long as you
have companies using it and paying for
it.
And
okay, there we go. We get OBS
and it's going to tell us that everybody
woke up, right?
Actions are ready on CPU.
Then it's going to say that we got the
OBS on GPU.
Okay, so this is where we're stuck,
right?
So we are waiting OBS ready on CPU.
We're waiting here
see what this looks like. So,
we created all our environments. We
called reset.
We called receive
and everybody wakes up.
Wait, why does everybody wake up?
And
this should get back up to waiting on
wake, shouldn't it?
Oh wait, is this off by one? Hang on.
I think I have off by one. So
if the index is less than end
otherwise,
yeah, the sub. Okay, I have an off by
one here somehow. Let me think about
this. This is going to take me a second.
only off by one from the infamous off by
two.
All right, let me let me see how we're
supposed to do this. So
Yeah. So this is going to loop
infinitely. You say
So if you have index equal end minus one
right
then you fetch it index. So this is end
minus one.
You add the completed.
Oh.
Uh, I see.
Okay. So, why do these workers why do
they wake up and then why do they not
get back?
Right.
and index is 512.
What happened here?
you know let's do this
and
Okay.
Uh
that make any sense to anybody?
Well, evidently I'm out of brain cells
at the moment. So, um
No, I see them all. They all wake up.
Okay.
Oh god.
Really?
Okay. So now we reset
we receive
send
Oh, I may as well put this one um
one small ad out.
Wait instead of learner, right? Uh yeah,
that happens. But I don't know why it's
still not working.
What did I mess up?
Did I like not I'm confused. Did I not
recompile this correctly?
Index equals you fetch the It's a fetch
add
less than the end
step.
This is wrong.
The heck
Like I'm confused as to what's
happening, but
like
And so if this were looping infinitely,
there's nothing else it can block on,
right?
what else can it possibly be blocking
on? I'm confused.
8 n
8 through 24 is 16 indices.
That's why uh that's why as well it was
not running the thread in the
background.
It's still not doing anything.
Ow.
Hey K,
we are fighting
asynchronous things,
sweep is ready.
Awesome.
link PR and I shall review it
soon as I figure out this one bug.
Very good.
Just a moment.
Race conditions confusing.
You can keep it would be better to start
sticking stuff on 40. It's easier. Uh
but what have you done to tower climb?
Like what did you change?
regenerating 20k maps. Change some
external internal stuff. The 20k maps is
like 2 MB,
huh?
And it's still fast.
Map's hard, too. Good. You have any cool
learning curves on it? Well, I guess
I'll see in that PR when you do it.
Yes, of course it is still fast.
You say, "Of course it was still fast,
man." But like
this is the main conversation I end up
having with like clients and like labs
and stuff. It's like, "Oh, well, you did
all this stuff. Is it still fast?" And
it's like, "No, we made it 10 times
slower
It's like I don't know. It's the main
thing that I deal with outside of like
pretty much everyone who's just doing
puffer lib hobbyist and stuff like
understands, but labs and companies like
do not understand the importance of
speed enough whatsoever.
It's like we can just write whatever
code and the computer will run it.
and not entirely true anymore. We do
have we've got some we actually have a
couple pretty damn technical clients
that have good engineering now,
[clears throat]
which is way way more preferable.
I don't know. It seems crazy, but like
like you got to realize this is the
default everywhere outside of Puffer.
Like the vast majority of top publishing
labs and industry projects do not even
run hyperparam sweeps
and they don't even have as stable of an
algorithm as we have either.
So it's like well how do you get stuff
done that way? You just well you don't.
Yeah. Okay. Sounds good. Come.
I have what time is it?
2 hours 15 minutes.
Hopefully we get PRs done and bugs fixed
by then.
I'll be very happy if we have this work
today.
Known baby RLER, but I read a lot. So
Tim, the problem is by if you're using
the literature to get an impression of
how to do RL, the problem is the
literature is [ __ ]
it's so funny because it sounds like so
completely arrogant if you're not
familiar with the space. Like look at
this dude. He's just like the only one
who does good RL. Like that's ridiculous
yet. But then if you just like look at
the stuff we have in Puffer and then
just go to the RL poster section of any
major conference and just go down the
aisle, you'll just go, "Oh, oh, I get it
now."
It was really funny. I had that happen
with uh with Spencer at RLC. It's like,
you know, it's not that I didn't believe
what you were saying, right? But like it
can't possibly be like that, right?
You've got to just be exaggerating,
right? you know, you're kind of an
over-the-top guy. You kind of you got to
be hamming it up somehow. And it's like
I'm not. If anything, I'm underelling
it. [laughter]
I kind of found like the best space ever
in that sense because
I don't like to do the grifty sales
thing, right, where they just [ __ ]
lie through their teeth. But I like to
be very over the top. Uh, and the only
way that you can get those two things to
go together is when you're in an area
where things are just like truly done in
a bafflingly stupid way.
>> clever ideas that might work rather than
the dumb one. Yeah, exactly. Academia is
very myopic.
Tiny Grad Puffer release. Jackson, stick
around the next few days. Um, if I
finish this today, I'm streaming Tiny
Grad tomorrow. If I finish this
tomorrow, I'll stream Tiny Grad like
Monday or Tuesday.
The only really major complaint I have
um so far with Tiny is the jet speed.
The jit speed is awful.
And
uh like because you basically you have
to run the max autotune version like
equivalent in order to make it
reasonably fast from what I've seen so
far. I'm going to have to run more
thorough tests, but that's like the key
uh the key thing right now
because like I don't want I do not want
Puffer users to like run experiments and
have a 15-second or a 30 second startup
time. That is awful. And then it's even
worse than that because it's well, oh
yeah, it just gets cached anyways. But
if you do sweeps, it doesn't get cached.
So then we have to add in like extra
warm-up code so that you don't mess up
the sweep profiling. It's kind of
obnoxious.
Is it any worse than torch compile? No,
not at all. The difference is torch has
a very good eager mode at least. So like
torch eager mode is actually sometimes
as fast as like reasonably good compiled
stuff out of jacks. It's kind of funny.
Like torch eager mode is for whatever
reason just way faster than anybody
else's eager.
Even though torch is so bloated like
you'd expect it to be slow and I mean it
could probably be way faster than it is
right but still
I don't know I don't want to ship puffer
4 until I have 10 million step per
second training and it'll be path of
least resistance to 10 million steps.
Also, have we uh have we reminded folks
to feed the puffer? He's hungry.
It makes me sad whenever the uh the
curve stalls out a little bit like this,
you know. Keep the curve going up.
Feed him stars. He likes it. It helps me
a lot. It's free.
do you guys understand though why um
like why those metrics matter? Like
let's say that I decide tiny rocks.
Okay, let's say that I actually just
decide you know what tiny is awesome.
It's basically the same as pietorch to
implement uh to implement your networks.
I'm comfortable like just telling my
users to use Tiny. Um, for businesses,
if this number were like 200, there'd
just be no way in hell that I would be
able to ship it because as soon as I go
to any company who wants to use Puffer,
they will bounce off it immediately when
they see that you're I'm using like some
niche probably unsupported tensor
library that'll probably be dead in a
few months, right?
But when you actually have a lot of
traction on a project, it's more like,
oh, okay, we're adopting an upand
cominging library that's actually has
traction and good growth and stuff like
that. So that's why the stars and stuff
are important and uh when those metrics
are not happening on their own, I have
to spend more of my time on like growth
and stuff like that instead of actually
writing code. That's why those m those
metrics matter.
It's not about funding or anything like
we're not raising
and it's I don't think It's disingenuous
either at all to just like ask my users
to star the repo, right? That's not like
fake growth. That's genuine growth.
It's like asking the people who already
use your stuff to go ahead and like show
that they do.
[sighs and gasps]
How's the work funded? work is funded
through.
At this point, we're mostly doing custom
sims.
We also do priority service packages for
a few companies.
Um,
you know, we have a couple companies
that we've like done work for that we
circle back with occasionally.
I actually I the thing that I just
introduced which I think I got to go
talk to a couple of the companies that
I've done stuff for already is um
because it's like it's really difficult
to keep track of the million different
chats I have with all the different
companies. So I think that the easiest
thing is just going to be to do uh this
like relatively lowcost sub thing. So
instead of having to have a 10k a month
contract with Puffer, just to be able to
have like a $200 a month sub that gives
him everybody access to a chat in one
place where it's easy to for me to like
stay up to date on everything.
That's the latest experiment.
But obviously the custom sim packages
are like way more than that.
And likely those will go up every
version as well because like we can we
can take on harder and harder problems
every release of Puffer.
labs you working with? Uh the main one
at the moment is uh Veninsk's lab NYU
because we have uh Puffer Drive. I've
done a couple things with Kathy Woo's
lab, just a few small things, you know,
tutorial to her lab as well on Puffer.
And uh there's also
uh Forers lab where I I've told them
that I will give them a intro tutorial
on all this stuff after after Nurups or
after the holidays or whatever.
I would have been able to go probably
discuss in person at Nurups, but I'm not
doing Nurups again. Like it nearly
killed me last year. I'm not It took me
like a year of training to get my health
back.
So, I'm not doing big conferences for a
bit.
Near lethal pneumonia from nerups last
year.
Was in the hospital for 5 days.
Did you get pneumonia? There's a strain
of it that goes around um like at those
like at big events and stuff. It's also
like in barracks and stuff. It's not the
same type of pneumonia that you usually
see in like older people.
No, it's it's this this one. it gets
passed directly.
It's myopplasma
and it's annoying because it's really
easy to miss.
So, by the time I took like by the time
I went to the hospital, I had like less
than one full lung to breathe on and I
had 105 fever.
So,
yep. What are you working on now? I am
working on the C vectorization back end.
Um,
the goal of this here is well, one to
eliminate Python overhead from VEC, but
then also this is going to allow us to I
think this should let us eliminate CPU
toGPU transfer overhead, which is going
to be really sweet because that is a
major major source of of slowdown right
now in Puffer.
this is saying that they're writing over
each other, which is weird to me.
What if I just take thread sanitizer
off,
put this back on.
Yeah, this is going to be a very very
big perf bump if I can get it to work
the way I think it should.
Pretty much it.
What the heck?
I messed something up here.
M set.
Huh?
Uh, how is this possibly
Vec unaligned?
The heck?
That makes no sense to me at all.
How the heck would it allocate it
unaligned?
Domain randomization seems to be
successful.
Reach out to Spencer about using a box.
Uh, he can get you set up. I don't have
you on the cluster, do I?
All right, let me send you Hang on. Let
me send you the form. There's uh there's
a one-page address that says you will
not do bad things on the cluster.
And actually, I will let I'll let you
use this box that I'm on right now after
I'm done with this debugging mess
pretty soon.
And for people watching, um, this is
basically an open offer for anybody
who is doing substantial work around
Puffer. You kind of just get prioritized
for um, machine access based on
uh based on what like the stuff that
you're working on.
Send this to you and we'll drop this in
Discord.
My electricity bill must be crazy. What
do you think the bill would be if I were
renting these machines?
Okay, that makes no bloody sense at all.
All right.
I don't understand how this is possibly
out of memory.
separate LSTM is gone. uh Kyouong if we
manage to get Mingru to be decidedly
better
but there is still going to have to be
there's still going to be se two
separate functions for forward and back
like and forward and uh eval but there
will not have to be two separate
networks
tiny is so far so good I need to
allocate more time to that either
tomorrow if I finish this or if I don't
finish this today then probably Sunday.
I honestly Well, the problem is that the
solar the solar panels just look awful.
it's like much nicer to be surrounded by
corn than it is to be surrounded by
solar panels.
Uh, you don't have enough area just with
one roof.
how much even is it? I'm actually
curious
if it's like
per box.
Oh, yeah. The It's not even substantial,
dude.
Yeah, the power costs are not even
substantial at all for these.
The hardware itself costs way more than
the power.
Yeah. So if I were running a tiny box
like 24/7, it would just be a couple
thousand bucks a year.
How the hell much how what is the how
much expensive is power in the UK that
you all guys you guys keep saying that
come join us in a real country where
things are not twice as expensive for no
reason.
Is that the is that the industrial cost
as well? Like doesn't that because that
would like if that's the actual cost
that just means you don't get data
centers in the UK.
Just like enjoy having zero zero
hardware deployed whatsoever in the
country.
That's so dumb. I was expecting it to be
like 20 or 30% higher.
It's ridiculous.
now. You got beans on toast there. We've
got southern barbecue here.
For some reason, nobody seems to be able
to get that right.
It's not hard. It's like if you're doing
cutting edge AI.
I don't know. Stupid.
Ridiculous.
All right. Why the [ __ ] does this not
work?
Can I just like
What happens if I delete this?
Yeah, the uh to be fair, Jess, the visas
at the moment are kind of
self-defeating.
Um,
for some reason, it it seems like some
of the visa program is designed such
that it's like get rid of visa holders
as quickly as possible, which is the
exact opposite of what you want.
I don't know. We got a bunch of old and
crusty bureaucrats. What can you do?
This This is driving me crazy. What the
We didn't have this as a problem before,
did we?
Actually, you know, I'm suspicious. Hang
on.
Hang on. I'm actually suspicious.
What if it ends up being this? I'm going
to feel really stupid, right?
Okay, fine.
Let's go check. Literally, the bug was a
That's so obnoxious.
All right, let's see what we're looking
at.
Actually, I need to go grab I need to go
get my last chunk of last bit of coffee
after that. That's a pain. Literally,
the freaking sanitizer flag was somehow
breaking the Alex. That's annoying. I'll
be right back.
now there's something wrong with this
indexing.
Test it like this.
That'll eliminate GDB from the equation.
Are we fast yet? Nah,
working on being fast.
Is he running freaking Omari?
Ridiculous.
initiated.
Wait. Worker waiting on wake.
Finish creating MS.
Okay.
and then we seg fault somehow.
Oh,
duh.
Because um
That's
cheat.
There we go.
All right. So,
we have eight workers
and we have four threads.
Cuz you have two buffers, you dummy.
Okay.
Stupid.
Okay. So, your four workers go through
correctly here, right?
Okay, so after two buffers, you break on
the
uh the first time around
and you are stuck waiting on CPU.
Let's go check what's happening here.
Also need a drink.
Oh yeah, I didn't bet do Diablo while I
wasn't Okay.
Waiting for OBS on CPU.
Waiting on CPU ops. Right. So, it's
waiting for this flag to get set.
have any emails? No, we do not have
emails.
Okay, it got farther this time. So, it's
uh it's definitely a race condition.
So we got buffer zero,
buffer one.
So we just have to look through this
logic then.
Fine.
That was fun.
Almost there.
More bugs.
Okay.
Uh, that does not
Hang on.
Okay. I guess we'll test this first and
then we'll see if there is a erase
condition afterwards.
All right. So,
did I recompile the right thing? No, I
didn't. Dummy.
Okay. So, we have uh we have our first
identified race condition here. Let's
see. Do we have any evidence though?
completed is 16.
Be back receive is waiting on CPU ops.
Why would that be the case?
Buffer one. Let's see how many of these
are ready.
We decided buffer
buffer one. OBS are ready.
Uh,
Yeah, this is why
hang on.
Yeah, cuz the blocks can finish out of
order.
Okay, I think I know why it's broken.
Now I just have to figure out how to fix
it.
You can skip blocks. I think
you can skip blocks even if you don't
have too many.
We should just enforce that block finish
in order.
Did we get them in order? We got buffer
zero obs
Huh?
Wait. So, buffer zero obs are ready.
Buffer zero obs are ready.
Uh, that should not be possible, right?
Buffer zero.
That should be impossible right there.
No.
Done. Buff.
Would your advice be approaching
improving technical skills
industry research engineering RL?
Um, honestly
landed one, but the interviews were
mostly theory worried about technical
cops.
It depends on if it's LLML or anything
but LLM.
Um, yeah, my articles I was about to go
there. So, that is really like all my
best advice in one place. you can work
through that content quite well and that
will put you in a very good spot
overall.
I mean, it's mostly like RL when done
badly is one of the most painful,
horrendous things to work on ever. Um,
there's a reason I put so so much
emphasis on speed and simplicity and
puffer. It yields great dividends. I've
seen like many RL teams where stuff is
bloated and slow and it's just
impossible to get anything done and it
feels awful and there's no amount of
technical savvy that will save that. Um,
so it's mostly about keeping stuff fast
and simple. And then obviously, yeah,
there is some
uh some additional stuff to that, but if
you I guess it depends how much of the
theory side stuff was like the old
basics versus practical stuff. Um,
you can look at some of the advancements
we've made in Puffer 3, honestly, as
like the actual practical what works.
sort of a mix. VLM, VALA, physics, sims.
Oh jeez. Yeah, robotics is uh
well, the good news is your
understanding of RL uh the understanding
of RL at the frontier of robotics is
also super far off.
Honestly, the main thing that robotics
people need to do is make their Sims
faster and e and like
faster and easier to debug.
for lib M for robotics. Yeah,
I mean the thing is you can totally do
your own standalone physics M and that's
probably on the NG side one of the
better ways to learn. Uh, for the most
part, nobody understands anything
uh on the like algorithm side of RL.
Like most of the fancy algorithms out
there for RL just don't work. They're
just wrong. So if people are telling you
like, oh yeah, you don't understand RL,
you need to go learn uh you need to know
the fundamentals of DDPG and QMIC and
you need to know what the what other
[ __ ] algorithms are there. Gail's
imitation. Um, I there like dozens and
dozens of these like [ __ ] algorithms
that don't actually work.
The vast vast majority of RL is um like
on policy RL works. Keeping RL more on
policy is better. There are some small
modifications you can make to existing
algorithms that improve even further. We
have some of these already and a few
more of these planned.
There are still some unsolved problems
on the algorithm side, but like none of
the proposed fancy methods actually
address them correctly, and they're all
doomed to fail from the start anyways
because they're too slow to even test to
see if their results are valid.
like the majority of what makes the like
yeah there is some theory and if you can
understand all of my the stuff in my
guide all those resources you kind of
have enough of that knowledge and then
the vast vast majority of it is uh
Go look how this worked.
Buffer zero. Buffer one. Buffer zero.
Buffer one. Buffer zero. Buffer one.
one. Then buffer zero. Cool.
So, the workers,
let's see what the last messages we got.
There's some of these that can be out of
order and some of them that can't be.
Articlespuffer 3 codebase and write
physics sims. Yeah, that's probably the
best way to go. There's some cool
low-level engine puffer 4, but like as
you can see, there is still quite a bit
of work left on that. Puffer 4 is going
to be awesome, but it is a huge amount
of work.
And if your company requires puffer
services, we do offer those as well. I
got to mention it. Obviously,
we're not specialized to robotics or
anything, but we do have some pretty
good general purpose RL.
Any papers?
Intellect three. I have not read that.
Oh, this is prime.
Like why
why would I read this? This is like
completely not the domain. Like this is
not RL, dude.
Like LM RL really is not RL.
Like literally all the language model
stuff, it's just stupid baby mode RL.
They can't even train a value function.
Like the things that make what I do hard
are completely different from the things
that make LMRL hard. And frankly, the
only thing that makes our LLMRL hard is
like scaling big nets to train
distributed is very hard. And then the
fact that you can't run any bloody
experiments because everything is so
expensive is hard.
In like the style of RL I do, we have
making small models fast is hard. Making
environments fast is hard. Making like
multi uh multi-threaded vectorization
backends is hard. Um we have core
algorithmic problems on like real RL
algorithms that are hard.
We need like we have really large scale
hyperparameter stuff to do which is
hard.
There are tons and tons and tons of
things
are FBR. There is no way.
There is no way that forward oiler is
what you want for higher dim control
there. You need to show me a human hand
or a humanoid like something with 20
degrees of freedom and then you need to
show me consistent energy plots with
forward oiler before I will believe
that.
There's no way.
When I say that robotics people are
trolling on Sims and like they can do
stuff faster, I don't mean that
keep RK4.
Okay. Workers waiting on wake. So all
the workers are here. So they have not
gotten a signal.
All right.
So actions are ready
on CPU.
what input sources
and I'll je
um
honestly at this point the path forward
is pretty clear to me. I like I read
some amount of research
just not very much because they're very
very few things worth reading. I have a
couple like algo side things that I know
are going to go in in Puffer 5 and then
for the most part it's like me just
doing fundamental like the GPO goes this
fast the models go this fast these two
numbers are very different why is that
the case and like going through and
finding every possible thing um
sometimes that leads me to architecture
stuff like mining for instance
Puffer 3 was a combination of like a few
different techniques extensively
validated.
I don't know. I just I don't really need
that many sources anymore. It's kind of
like everything is sort of just laid out
in front of me and I just need to do it.
At least at this point in time, I kind
of just like think in my head like,
okay, what are the main barriers holding
back RL and like what do I do about
them?
Tower climb. Awesome. Kyouung, I will
get
let me one more thing to check and then
yes, we will do both of those PRs merge.
Freaking thing driving me nuts.
I just want to figure out why this is
stalling here because I got I fixed a
lot of it.
offer PR feedback.
course
if you PR physics MS I will gladly
review those and merge live on stream
obviously for closed source stuff from
companies that's another story that's
what we do professionally but everything
that's open source around puffer yeah
chill
Okay, good. Just making sure One client
thing I might have had to have done.
You're good.
PR PR something already. You've done a
dozen projects and no PRs.
I'm once again asking you to finish a
project before starting a new one.
I just want to fix this last uh if I can
figure out this race condition, then we
can just go and merge Kung's two PRs.
We'll look at the sweep stuff. We'll
look at tower climb PR and uh we will be
set for today.
And I will be on um for folks watching,
I will be streaming all day tomorrow.
Uh, we will see whether it does this or
tiny grad stuff.
Well, he's done like a m a bajillion
M's, but he won't like finish any of
them as a standalone.
I've seen several of those like got 80%
of the way there and a lot of them just
didn't you know
buffer zero actions.
Wait, it says both of these are ready,
right?
and then this broadcast the wait
condition.
good small end between Breakout and
Tetris.
Well, we have um neural MMO 3 is unless
you're going to like tell me that you
have a network that's wrecks neural MMO
3. Man,
the one thing I noticed, Kyouong, um,
that I think is probably very very
suboptimal,
neural MMO 3, for whatever reason, has
an absolutely insane gamma coefficient
that like sweeps would always return.
So, I wouldn't be surprised if it's
possible to do way better than we have
now. Uh, but something screwy.
That's on the high end. What is Oh,
neural MMO. Yeah.
A good small end between Breakout and
Tetris. I see.
I mean, you actually making these M's
like know having these M be a variety of
difficulties and like actually
benchmarking them super helpful.
Like I you weren't here when I showed
this before.
here.
This is um
this is literally with a flat encoder.
So there's not too big of a gap almost
between flat encoder and our con encoder
here. Even though the flat encoder
doesn't make any sense cuz we have
categorical data in there.
I know.
I'm confused as to how this thing is
blocked.
Well, now it's doing the entire thing
without
getting stuck anywhere.
Um, yeah, it's no longer doing it.
Kind of awkward.
This is annoying because I know that we
didn't get all the um
we did not get all of the
Okay, there you go.
So, it does
rarely, albeit uh it does it does get
stuck.
Uh we do get
action ready.
Okay. So, how does this happen? Back in
15. All right. We'll merge this in 15 as
soon as you're back, young. That way I
have time before dinner.
>> [snorts]
>> Funny.
So, wait. I'm
end index.
Actions ready.
Ready. Actions are ready
on CPU
plus eight
another eight.
You have actions ready for both of
these.
They should have broadcasted
the end index
is 1992.
I misunderstood how the way the
broadcast works.
Let me let me check this and then I'll
explain.
there are no ops if no one is waiting.
Yeah.
So the fix for Yes.
I think this is still a possible race
condition, but a way rarer one.
No,
we still hit it apparently.
let me go think about this. So I think
what's happening basically is you're
losing this broadcast
because um the thread's still going.
So, it's not actually updating
the uh it's not actually updating and
running this loop for long Enough.
Uh
yeah. So we want to load
hang on
this right.
X
work so far. So good. What is crit? I'm
probably doing more of it either
tomorrow or Monday on stream.
Oh, wait. Atomic load. What the heck is
this?
all the prints.
That'll tell us if it actually hangs
Yeah, you got to not do that
generally.
No more. Um,
yeah, no more hanging
How do you stop digging into rabbit
holes?
You have a good mental model of like
what's likely to yield progress and what
isn't.
made some good progress on this
and commit all this in a minute or two.
We might even be able to get to do tiny
grad stuff tomorrow. Progress
I
goes up to
getting to the point where I'm too tired
to keep making progress on this for the
day. But
I think we can get this to run and then
merge Kung's PR and we're in a really
good spot for the weekend.
And it even trains. Look at that.
It even trains.
Lovely.
All right, we are set.
You see this?
We are well set.
And I don't need to do uh any more of
this dev on this box.
So I can give this one to Jess.
Do that.
I just need to go grab his
need to go grab his uh agreement
there
and then we will review in one moment.
We will review Kyouong's PR for uh hyper
pram sweeps
as well as
power climb back any moment as well.
Uh, and I have to send him the tail
scale invite.
And uh Kyouong is back it looks like.
How's hyperparameter sweep work? Does it
take a lot of time to check all
combinations? Does not check all
combinations. It does something much
more sophisticated than that. checking
all combinations would be a grid search
which is about the stupidest thing you
can possibly do. Um,
we use protein which is our own
algorithm. You can read about it on uh
on X in my articles tab and then Kyouung
has made a bunch of optimizations
that like prune off bad runs from it as
well. what we're going to be looking at
right now.
The puffers.
Oh yeah, this environment is this entire
environment is meant as a reminder to
star the puffer fish.
Start the repo. That helps a lot.
Puffers like stars.
Which one first we do? Um,
was it 280?
What the heck? Which PR was it?
We got 431 and
425.
Okay. So early stopping
and then three phases.
No thresholding during min cost.
Quantilebased thresholding
Hard zone upper bound should exceed the
max score
so far or it gets stopped.
It exceed the max score so far
or get stopped
which is the smoothing thing.
This is very vulnerable to noise still,
but way better than before.
I've seen this.
I thought you'd edited it. Maybe I'm
dumb.
Oh, I'm dumb. Absolutely.
Uh,
make that account. And Jess, are you
ready for multiGPU sweeps or no?
Or I mean not multiG. Well, yeah,
multiGPU sweeps are no. I guess you are
either way because you can use the 40
based stuff
uh which does multiple, you know, I'll
send you the credits to this.
Do not break this machine. Um,
there you go.
There your creds.
I will let you do some sweeps and some
experiments on this for a bit. Um, and
then expect that at some point we will
move you to uh an individual box for
like more common experiments because at
some point I am going to start needing
to use these for um uh constellation
sweeps in the next few weeks. The big
ones
lowered the threshold from 1.05 max 4 to
0.9 max. Okay, perfect.
More long runs. Clause normalization is
done with
MP quantile.
Percentile base target metric
logic transform incoming percentile
stores.
Yeah, that's not terrible.
tonight and get sent. Thank you. Sounds
good. Jess,
I will be around to probably join a call
if need be later
after dinner.
I'm not going to block this PR on this
Kung. So, I'm going to merge this. But
can you please fix thresh threshold to
threshold?
[laughter]
Uh, let's see.
Did you leave that in for me
intentionally so I'd have something to
nitpick you on?
It's spelled T R E S H O L. There
there's no H here. What? Like you're
missing the H
on all of them.
So K, can you explain? So this here, is
this just that the early runs got to be
like too long? Like the default run is
just too long or something?
because I see that these are all the
early runs being Bad.
That's a lot of early run. Like that's a
lot of wasted compute on Tetris. But I'm
also getting concerned that if you're
only testing on a few M, you're going to
be overfitting this to a few M's
anyways.
So, you're going to expect to be bugged
a whole bunch when I go to run
constellation sweeps if things are jank.
Oh,
very good.
Very, very good.
Over.9. Jesus, look at that.
That is solid.
Wait. Wait so you can do All right, I'll
wait for you to do your typo fix.
[sighs]
Young is fixing typos. Is there anything
interesting on the internet? Likely not
miss anything.
Nope.
We're also going to review Tower Climb.
You should make the Ilia stream a
running bit.
What?
I'll do it at I will do it relatively
soon. Jess pushed.
Yay.
I should probably look at your code.
I'm just quickly going through
top obs.
I was just there as an intern.
six-month internship, but So
are also same.
Change quickly.
Young, you're going to have to help me
with this cuz we're going to have to run
like
original protein versus this.
But like, well, we're going to have to
do some damn many experiments. I'm sure
I'll lend you boxes,
but there's going to have to be a lot of
[ __ ] for constellation. So we make sure
that we get it right when we go to run
100,000 experiments
that is the only thing and it's on me
that I didn't um I allowed this on 300
in the first place but still
Power climb
Oh no,
dude. I hate this [ __ ] I hate this so
[ __ ] much.
Do not ever do this. I [ __ ] hate
engineering this way.
I It's fine. I'll merge it anyways cuz
like like I'm just going to like I'm
just going to replace it. No biggie. But
this type of [ __ ] drives me insane. This
is how you get just like dog [ __ ] call
back hell engineering. It obscures what
the [ __ ] you're doing. It's just not a
good time.
app
levels
quick fix.
Yeah, that's fine, Ken. I'll merge it
for so that you can run stuff.
touching and binding which is good
and maps
power climbd
Oh, you pretty much did just adjust the
Okay, that's totally good then.
Okay.
Thank you, Kung.
It was slow because there was a for loop
to fill an individual cell.
Just a mem copy.
That's fun. I'm surprised that one got
by Spencer. I guess this was one um he
wasn't as experienced back when he wrote
the original for this.
That's super funny.
Cool. So, both of these merged. Yeah.
The uh the goal here is going to be that
like it's probably going to take me a
little longer than I expect to get to
this point because I want to have like
solid, stable, fast puffer to run
experiments on first. Um and then I'm
going to have to make sure that the C++
and the Python are giving us the same
quality results. But then the goal is
going to essentially be that we have
like thousands of experiments full parto
front across cost and score uh and steps
for all of the environments.
Um and then we like we probably the goal
is that we run like a 100,000
experiments or something ridiculous. I
don't know if we'll do 100k or we'll do
it based on data. We're going to do some
ridiculous number and then we will uh
we're going to ship that as a data set
and the PTO points in there at least the
PTO points if not all of them are just
going to be shipped to the website and
you can play around with them in
constellation. That's the goal.
What do you mean M should give good
score metrics?
That's like hilariously
Oh, wait. R&D. Hang on. I don't know
what this is.
Oh, wait. Never mind. I'm dumb.
I actually don't know what this is.
Whatever.
Were they? No, definitely Hots
definitely is not that, my guy.
So far, I've been having a good time
with Tiny Grad. Um
I mean if it actually solves the
problems he says I got to order another
server from them at a principle.
M should be research grid to begin with.
Um, [sighs]
so
I think that we shouldn't have all of
the research M having like
multicomponent reward functions that
also need those tuned. Uh, Kyouong, like
ideally
like what do you mean by research grade,
right?
We definitely want the score metrics or
like a normalized PF metric is pretty
much what you want. Like you need a
normalized PF metric for sure.
can use a whole bunch of these.
We broke up the record by 10x.
Well, if if the end is easy, if you just
solve the end, right? Not every end is
going to be hard.
Like you don't need to go in and do
things to make the M's harder all the
time.
Like for instance, right, like
people do [ __ ] like sticky actions and
like what else do they do? Um
there's like a whole ser set of rappers
that people apply to breakout that make
it like it basically makes it way harder
than you look and that's a bad than it
looks and that's a bad thing because you
look at the task and it looks pretty
easy and then it's like hard for the RL
so you think the RL is bad. Like this
task I think is fine to be the way it is
and like we just solve it. And it's
actually kind of good to have some of
the tasks be static so that we can track
progress over versions because when the
m change we kind of lose our reference
point. So like for breakout for instance
I'd very much like to keep breakout the
same so that I can track from version to
version you know how many seconds does
it take us to solve breakout.
I think the same with neural MMO for
now. Since neural MMO is the really hard
measure task, I kind of want to see like
overtime progress. We can make some
architecture changes and stuff, but I
don't want to like do anything that's
going to make the end easier,
Most everything else I think is up for
grabs.
like if you're going to make neural like
there shouldn't not I don't think
there's a reason to try to make neural
MMO harder either cuz like we should
just make neural MMO 4 once you get a
policy that does everything in neural
MMO 3.
What else do I use? I use drone
occasionally. I like snake as a quick
multi- aent test. Um I use like moa is
actually too easy now. MOA should be a
selfplay N. Slime volley is a selfplay
N. Um I mean I run sweeps on pretty much
everything. It's just a lot of them are
quite easy. But that's it's okay to have
a good number of easy ends, right? Like
if we have 10 environments that we just
have to run like a relatively small
sweep on to get a really good policy,
then like we'll know that something is
seriously wrong, right? If we haven't
changed the env in a long time and
suddenly one of them stops working.
I thought about that FBR. I'm pretty
sure neural MMO 3 would just be slower
in CUDA straight up.
You're literally just like it's
branching hell. It's a game. It's a full
game.
I'm pretty sure there's no reason to do
that. I think we're going to see the uh
the bandwidth optimization, but I think
that it's going to just be super fast
with um this new VE back end. We'll time
that maybe tomorrow.
Yeah, Kyouong, at least there you have
like my mindset for this. I want to have
a variety of tasks that cover very easy
to very hard and it's good to do work to
like optimize towards that. But it's
also fine to like as long as the ends
are stable, it's okay to have users just
submit a ton of M's uh as long as we can
use them consistently, right? Uh and
then we can just like track and
aggregate data across M's because we can
do cool stuff with that, right? We can
check like hyperparameter stable region
across N's. You know, there's lots of
stuff we're going to be able to do in
constellation with the data from more
N's.
And with that, I have to go get dinner.
Um, I've got, yeah, I got dinner with my
family to go to. So, for everybody
watching, thank you for tuning in. I
will be live all day tomorrow, Saturday.
Uh, and I will be doing possibly tiny
grad stuff, possibly more VEX stuff,
possibly both. We shall see. Um, once
again, if you're interested in my
content, my work generally, just take a
second to start the GitHub.
It doesn't cost anything. It really,
really does help. And it's, you know,
star the puffer, feed the puffer, star.
Um, Discord is where all the dev
happens. This is where you want to be if
you want to learn. discord.gg/puffer.
gg/puffer.
And other than that, my articles on X
are the best place to get started for
learning RL. It's all free. It points
you to everything that is free. Um, and
we also have like some of my uh research
articles are on here as well. So, if you
want like the latest and cutting edge
research, like this was literally the
result of a one-mon research block that
I did and it's just here as an art a
quick easy read on X.
That's all. Thank you folks.